hey guys welcome back to the channel as
you probably know a thing that got
incredibly popular over the last few
years are escape rooms
you've probably heard of them you and a
bunch of your friends got locked in a
room and have to solve a series of
puzzles to escape
and it didn't take long for there to be
a movie about it even though escape room
wasn't exactly a critical success i was
actually surprised by how entertaining
it was
but of course we're not here to discuss
the movie's quality but instead how to
beat the rooms and escape
we'll look at which rooms you can cheat
in so that you wouldn't have to complete
the puzzles and how to keep most of the
characters alive
in the film six strangers from all
different walks of life are sent a
mysterious black
cube after playing around with it they
notice it's a puzzle box they need to
unlock
when they manage to open it a note pops
out saying they can win ten thousand
dollars by doing a special escape room
they arrive at the building and after
relieving their personal belongings at
the front desk they go into the waiting
room
there they all get to know each other
well this is gonna suck
hi hey among the group are our
protagonists zoe ben
jason amanda mike and danny when ben
tries to leave for a smoke he rips off
the door handle and it turns out that
the game has already begun
in the place where the handle was is now
an oven dial they spread out across the
room and start searching for the clues
to escape
zoe then sees a copy of feronite 451 and
assumes that it must be the number they
need to enter into the dial
what was that i don't know unfortunately
this begins their death trap
on the ceiling glowing heating elements
appear and warm up the room
after accidentally hitting more buttons
the windows are covered and even more
heat is introduced
while searching for a way out zoe
discovers a sentence written on the wall
of reminding them to use
coasters this leads them to the big
table in the middle
they all push down on the coasters which
opens a small corridor behind a painting
on the wall
and although the door is open if they
stop pushing down the coasters it closes
again
the problem is that as they start to
leave the room there won't be enough
people there to push down all the
coasters
this room is probably the easiest to
escape because the puzzle isn't very
complicated
in the movie the guys fill up 7 glasses
of water from a dispenser and set them
on the coasters
and for the last cup ben uses his flask
to fill it up but they can also just put
a few of the magazines on top of the
cups
they can use the furniture or the
flowers as well really anything that has
some weight to it
this would be much faster than filling
up 8 cups from an almost empty dispenser
some might argue that it would be
considered cheating and that the people
watching wouldn't allow them to continue
however ben uses his flask that he
sneaked in to fill up the final cup
which was also not intended so bending
the rules is clearly allowed
another solution is blocking the door to
the duct so it stays open
they can do this by taking some of the
smaller furniture or their chairs in the
room
and sticking them into space the duct is
big enough that they could place
something to hold it open
and still crawl into it but we learn a
valuable tip here
don't touch anything unless you're
certain you know what you're doing
the last thing you should do is run into
the room and start hitting buttons
randomly as it might activate the threat
there's also no set time limit so
there's no rush
after they climb into the air duct the
waiting room explodes
they crawl into the next room which is a
comfortable winter cottage
some of the characters are really upset
with what just happened and want to call
the police
it turns out that dany secretly sneaked
in a phone to pass any down time
unfortunately there's no signal but
there's something else they can do with
the phone which will be important later
to leave the cottage they need to unlock
a door that is closed by a combination
lock and it requires a 7-letter password
however they wouldn't really need to
find the code the easiest way out of the
cottage is to break the windows and
climb out
there's nothing indicating that they're
unbreakable and they're easily big
enough to fit a person so with a few
safety precautions it should be doable
also the front door looks pretty weak
unlike the big solid one from the
previous room this one is made up of a
few wooden planks
so something they can try is ramming it
open or breaking it
bender notices a few reindeer trophies
and in a flashback he remembers driving
all of his friends while he was
completely wasted
he ended up in a car crash but shortly
before they all sang rudolph the
red-nosed reindeer
and that turns out to be the password
but it doesn't seem like a coincidence
that the code was related to such a
crucial turning point in ben's life
they make their way out of the cottage
and find themselves in a winter setting
that appears to be outdoors on a frozen
lake
[Laughter]
when it gets even colder the cabin locks
its doors and they're trapped in this
place which is meant to look like it's
outside but it's really not
on the edge of the room jason finds a
door which allows them to exit
but they need to find the key then the
older guy mike discovers a fishing rod
which they can put in a hole in the ice
he lets down the line and after a few
seconds he pulls out this block of ice
with the key to the next room in the
middle
since ben carries a lighter on him the
other guys ask him for it to melt the
ice quicker
he throws it across the ice and dany
goes to get it as he picks it up the ice
beneath and cracks and he's thrust into
the cold water
one of the girls tries to swim after him
but jason tells her that there's a
strong current in the water so she can't
save him
they try to get him out by hitting the
ice but it doesn't work and shortly
after he drowns
here what the others can do is slam the
big heavy ice block through the ice to
create another hole where dany could
exit
but first they should get off the ice to
not risk falling in the force of the
block is more likely to work than
stomping on the spot where dany is
even if you managed to somehow stomp
through the ice you'd kick dany in the
face
and then you would also fall in so that
doesn't do anything whereas the block
with its metallic edges can really crack
a new hole
then they could get danny out and fish
out the block afterwards
they also shouldn't give up on him so
quickly because danny can still be saved
after he drowns
even though he's shown to pass out he's
no longer moving meaning that there's no
current so it's safe to jump in if they
continue searching for him and swim
after him like the one girl wanted to
they can still get him out and perform
cpr
there are plenty of instances of people
being resuscitated even though they
drowned but there's another solution in
the beginning jason mentioned that
there's a current in the water but i
don't think that there really is one
this would make rescuing dany a lot
easier first of all the water where the
hole is appears to be still
there's little to no movement and
nothing you couldn't outswim and it's
not exactly clear
where the current would be going since
dany floats all over the place
meaning that it would somehow flow in
every direction simultaneously
and after he drowns his body is entirely
still
so without a current what they can try
as the team is that one person hangs
into the hole
sort of as a beacon that dany could swim
towards this is important because it's
almost impossible to tell
where the entry hole is when you're
underneath the ice it all looks the same
meanwhile the others would signal and
lead him to where he needs to go
after dany's death the group turns their
attention to getting the key out of the
ice
their solution is to surround it with as
much body heat as possible
after putting their hands on it and mike
hugging it they eventually managed to
get the key out of the ice
their approach of covering it with their
hands isn't a bad idea
however you shouldn't do it in the snow
but rather on the porch of the cottage
there it's not wet there's no ice and
you'll get some heat radiating from the
house which would greatly speed up the
process
instead what they do is sit on the ice
covered in snow while their butt is
getting wet making them even colder
once the ice block has become a little
smaller you can throw this small chunk
of ice on the floor to crack it open
that way you wouldn't have to melt it
entirely and you would spend a lot less
time
in the cold they use the key to unlock
the door and make it into the next room
the door closes behind them and they
find themselves in an upside down bar
with a big pool table
the ceiling of the room is really the
floor they are standing on
they see that to escape they need to
find the handle to the yellow exit door
however every time the phone rings a
piece of the floor drops
revealing a deep pit meaning that they
need to make sure that they stay off the
ground or they might fall in with the
next ring
amanda starts climbing and finds a
locked safe behind the bar
there's also a big sliding puzzle on the
wall which can help with a combination
the safe and the puzzle are on opposite
ends of the room so while amanda is by
the safe
all the others make their way to the
exit where the puzzle is but they must
be careful as more pieces of the floor
drop with every phone ring
when zoe completes the sliding puzzle it
shows them the combination to the save
in it amanda finds the door handle with
everyone except for her across the room
amanda needs to make her way
to the other side but every piece of the
floor is already gone except for the big
center part
so she can't just walk to the other end
she jumps at the pool table and tries to
like
shimmy along the ledge but after half of
the way she doesn't have enough energy
left and hangs from the table
then the ball falls out of her pants
onto the final floor piece
she drops down gets the ball and throws
it to jason the phone then rings and the
last part of the floor drops
making amanda fall to her death now the
people in this movie are actually doing
pretty well
they work in a team and aren't selfish
still what amanda can do to survive is
instead of using her arms to monkey bar
her way across the table she can climb
on top of it which in this room would be
underneath
that way you only have to do one pull up
then to get to the other end of the room
you can crawl underneath it or alongside
it
but in case you have little to no energy
left like amanda
there's a simpler but slightly riskier
solution you can walk on this
ledge which goes along the entire room
this is much easier and more secure than
hanging from a table if you know you're
not strong enough the characters even
used this as a safe technique multiple
times before
so get the ball climb down and move
along the ledge then you can join the
others by the exit
when they're remaining for a leave they
find themselves in a hospital room
there the tv starts playing and shows
them a fake advertisement for a surgeon
it tells them to test their limits along
with a 5 minute timer
after assembling a few clues the guys
find an ekg machine which measures their
heart rate
if the 5 minute timer is up a toxic gas
held by 6 containers will spread in the
room and kill them
with the time pressure getting to him
jason believes that they're supposed to
show a really high heart rate on the ekg
which would unlock the next room
it's not working uh somebody else has to
do it
like we need a high rate you gotta go
mike connects himself to the device and
jason uses a defibrillator to skyrocket
his heart rate he uses it over and over
again which ends up killing mike
even though he ended up having a crazy
high heart rate the door still doesn't
open
the five minutes run out and the toxic
gas spreads in the room
then jason conveniently figures out that
they're actually supposed to get a lower
heart rate he connects himself to the
ekg
does some meditation and gets his heart
rate as low as he can
at 70 beats per minute the device reads
congratulations and the next room opens
up
but zoe doesn't want to go instead she
wants to stay in the toxic room and
smash
all the cameras she believes that with
no one being able to monitor them they
can get an upper hand over the people
watching
so beating the hospital room is a little
trickier but it's shown that the tanks
that release the gas
are strapped to the wall what they can
do to slow down the gas is wrap the
tanks with the hospital sheets or just
in general cover them so the gas doesn't
spread as quickly
i think wrapping the tanks alone could
save them as knowing that they have a
few extra minutes before they pass out
would get them to think more clearly
then jason would probably be more
careful before killing one of the people
in their group
there are also numerous oxygen masks
lying around which can buy them even
more time
it's shown later on that zoe used them
to stop suffocating from the gas
they would have to put the tube in a
place where the gas can go and then
they'd have an almost infinite amount of
time to beat the puzzle
ben and jason then head into the next
room and leave zoe behind
she ends up smashing all the cameras and
appears to suffocate from the gas
but as i already said she ends up using
the oxygen mask to survive
the two guys who left the hospital
setting then find themselves in a black
and white room
in the corner they see a hatch and twist
the valve to open it
but unfortunately there's a toxic liquid
on the handle
both of them experience severe dizziness
and nausea shortly after
on the inside it tells them that they
need to find an antidote fast
the liquid appears to be some sort of
halocenogen that distorts their view and
disorients them
after checking the walls ben finds the
cure in a small drawer
he gets in a fight with jason and even
though he's not as strong
ben manages to overpower him and ejects
himself with the antidote
so this one you can't really beat
because of the simplicity of the problem
there isn't any intricate task but just
both of you are poisoned now fight for
the antidote
so one of them won't make it if all the
people made it this far
only the ones who didn't touch the hatch
and the one who got the antidote would
get out
so at least one person won't leave i
tried looking up what it was they
touched and how long it would take for
them to die from it
but i couldn't find any drugs that would
cause these symptoms by
only touching it but that's why zoe's
approach in the hospital room is the
best one
of course they can't really know that
going in but smashing the cameras and
getting the oxygen mask would allow them
to all live
that way they wouldn't suffocate from
the gas and as we see later it will
enable them to leave the game
after ben injects himself with the
antidote he enters the final room
at the long end ben sees a puzzle and
starts moving the numbers around
this activates a wall which starts
closing in okay i got ten numbers
four spots i need a four digit code
no no no no no no no ben tries to find
the code to the puzzle but the one he
gets doesn't work
the wall comes in closer leaving fewer
and fewer space for him
he manages to survive here by taking a
shield and jumping into the fireplace at
the last moment
it's in a little space that the wall
can't reach and goes by
now as we found out earlier the first
thing to do is not touch
anything without knowing what you're
doing we saw this to a lesser degree in
the previous rooms where not thinking
through your ideas has failed
consequences
and here ben doesn't even know what the
puzzle is and he instantly starts
entering numbers
so just waiting a little bit can go a
long way also if you look at how this
wall moves you can evade it by going
into any of the bookshelves or small
spaces that the wall can't reach
but you'd have to clear it out first
those methods are a lot less risky than
jumping into an open fire
even though it worked out for ben so if
5 of them made it this far
they could all have a safe place in the
room meanwhile with zoe
two men in hazmat suits enter through a
secret door to clear the room
it turns out that she used the oxygen
mask to survive and attacks the two
guards
she surprises them kills them both and
leaves benden enters a big hall where he
faces the game's master
from the beginning of civilization we've
known there was something captivating
about watching human beings fight for
their lives
that's why we watch gladiator games it's
revealed that this organization is
funded by powerful and ultra-rich people
around the world who take pleasure in
watching
the man tries to kill ben since no one
is supposed to come out alive to expose
them
but lucky for him zoe enters to help
they both fight and kill the game's
master
after which they walk out alive since
there appears to be only one games
master if they all managed to come this
far
it would be pretty easy to beat him
since it would be five against one
and the cleanup guys would still be busy
with the last room anyways that night
the police speak to zoe and take her to
the building so that she can show them
what happened
but to her surprise the house is
completely abandoned
all of it's empty and there's no sign of
any rooms it's already been cleaned up
the police tell her that with no
evidence they can't investigate anything
this is where dany's phone could've been
crucial throughout the day dany took
some photos
if they managed to save dany they would
still have the pictures that would prove
their experience
that way the police would have some
proof of the rooms and their
organization would be in trouble
they would either face an investigation
or the group would share their
experience with the evidence and the
media
anyways a few months later zoe and ben
meet for coffee
ben has since drastically improved his
life but zoe can't let go of what
happened
they decide to track down the
organization to presumably end the
escape rooms once and for all
that's the dangerous fatal escape rooms
not the normal ones
in a short epilogue we can see that the
organization is already preparing for
zoe and ben to come to them
they have designed a new room taking
place on the airplane that zoe and ben
will be taking
now i don't know about you guys but i'm
definitely gonna watch the sequel
anyways let me know how you would escape
or if i got anything wrong
i will see you guys in soft five i hope
you liked it and thank you so much for
watching
bye
you